    Just before the start of the quarter, I started a negotiation with my current employer, SpotOn. I've been working at SpotOn for over 2 years. Six months into the job, I was given a considerable raise of $15k, but 18 months went by without another one. I thoroughly enjoy my job, as I'm running a team, building software products, which was my post-MBA goal - it's the perfect role for me. I didn't want to leave, but I was assuming more and more responsibility and not getting compensated for it - my team ballooned from three to ten in about six months. Additionally, we just raised $40mm in venture capital funding and are on a hiring binge, so I know I have a little leverage as we hire new talent and require folks who can manage them. 
    About a month before asking for a raise, I started researching salaries for comparable roles at tech companies on Glassdoor. My role is a hybrid between Product Manager, Engineering Manager, Software Architect, and Senior Software Developer. In terms of salary, on the low-side of these roles are Product Managers who, on average, make $105,000 per year in Chicago. On the high side of the salary spectrum are Engineering Managers who, on average, make $145,000 per year in Chicago. My goal was to land somewhere in the middle of this spectrum using Glassdoor and Built in Chicago metrics as reference points during the discussion. 
    Another topic I brought up during my request for a raise was the fact that our company currently doesn't offer a 401k. Compared to other well-funded startups or tech companies, this puts SpotOn at a disadvantage when hiring talent, especially older, more expensive candidates. If an employer offers a 5% match, that means I'm effectively taking a 5% haircut on my current compensation package, potentially more with tax effects. 
    I also prepared for known counter-arguments that my boss had. These arguments include the fact that A) I have options in the company that are worth, at least theoretically, somewhere north of $100k if they were all vested, and B) that they're paying $10k for school per year. To combat the options argument, I would argue that the money is risky because it required us to have an exit with no clear exit strategy nor acquirer - it could take years for that money to materialize. To combat the help with school, I would argue that the money is helping SpotOn because the Kellogg brand is helping to recruit talent and legitimize our company and product team. 
    I approached my boss on Friday before our first class. I started the conversation thanking him for the large raise he gave me fairly shortly into the job and for investing in my future by helping me out with school. But then I brought up the lack of 401k  and that I had pulled some comps on Glassdoor and found that I was compensated below the industry average. He didn’t object to anything I brought up. He did, however, counter with the fact that I had one of the largest option grants in the Chicago office and that we “are on a rocket ship”. He also brought up that the product I was running wasn’t having tremendous success, so the raise would have poor optics to his business partners. He started to ask how much I wanted for a raise, cut himself off, and said, “I think I know how much you want - $120,000”. This was my target number, so I nodded – not wanting to push the envelope too much. He told me he’d look into our 401k and get back to me, but made no promises on what he could do for me. He said that if our 401k was going to be rolled out in a month or two that he would only give me a $5k raise, not $10k that I was asking for. I said that seemed fair.
    A few weeks (and classes) passed and I didn’t hear anything from him. So, on the Friday two weeks after I asked for the raise, I went into his office and broached the subject again. This time, I had printed out the Glassdoor average compensation metrics I researched a few weeks back as collateral for potential additional discussion. My boss went into a fairly long explanation about the success of the company and my role in it and warned me that he was looking out for my long-term best interests. Essentially, his spin was that we’re doing very well and he didn’t want me to be short-sighted on the salary, but rather place more value in the options. I countered that I appreciate his guidance and input, but unvested options “don’t pay for student loans”. I felt like the conversation was turning south, so I cut him off and said, “Doron, with your logic, I’ll never get a raise again”. To which he said, “I’m giving you the raise, Dain, for the full amount you requested, but I need to know you’re behind this company 100%. Please realize, however, that this raise might negatively impact future option grants”. I felt fine with the potential downside risk – after all, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. For him, I think he was more worried about making sure I’d stay with the company rather than look elsewhere by stressing the upside potential with the option grant.
    So, in the end, I got the full raise I requested. In hindsight, I probably could have asked for more, or brought up additional negotiation points, like working remotely or more vacation and more options. But truth be told, none of these items were that important to me. I like to work at the office. I don’t think I need more vacation, nor would I likely use it. And I believe the option grants will come later down the road when my product starts to take off, or as a company, we continue to do well. I’m not the best poker player, so I think at some point the fact that these additional issues weren’t that important to me would have surfaced and my boss would see through it and just focus on the money like I wanted us to do.
